More than 2,000 people have died in Myanmar following Friday's powerful earthquake, the country's military leadership says, as it declares a week of national mourning

The UN has made an urgent appeal for $8m (£6.2m), as aid groups warn of a worsening humanitarian crisis in the war-torn country, with hospitals damaged and overwhelmed - the BBC has been told the smell of dead bodies is permeating the streets

BBC Burmese's Htet Naing Zhaw has visited a preschool in Kyaukse, where school bags, books and learning materials lay scattered among the rubble

Myanmar's military leaders are still carrying out air strikes against an armed resistance they have been fighting for four years, reports BBC's Rebecca Henschke

In neighbouring Thailand, 20 people are known to have died, and today thousands have been evacuated from cracked buildings in Bangkok

Rescue efforts continue for 74 construction workers trapped under the rubble of a collapsed high-rise building in the capital - but there has been no sign of life in the wreckage for hours, the city's deputy governor says

Additional Chinese rescuers to be deployed to Myanmarpublished at 

An additional 80 rescuers from China's Blue Sky Rescue Team will be deployed to Myanmar on Tuesday, the organisation says.

Team leader Zhu Minyun says that as things stand, the main focus is on search and rescue, with deployed teams short on manpower and equipment, and working in intense heat.

Zhu points out that with more rescuers arriving, things should improve "a lot".

He says the goal is to set up a major relief corridor into Myanmar to reach more affected areas, and rescuers plan to work with Chinese and Burmese authorities to assess the safety of the route.
Military junta not responding to ceasefire calls in Myanmar - ousted government politicianpublished at 20:05

Myanmar's military junta is not responding to requests for a ceasefire in the country's four-year civil war, according to a member of the National Unity Government (NUG), which represents the ousted civilian administration.

Speaking to the BBC, Win Myat Aye says "fighting is continuing from their side. Near Mandalay, in some townships, they have the heavy weapons shooting inside”. We brought you details on some of the reported ground attacks earlier.

He adds that some “revolutionary forces have extended their will to help” but “there is no signal” or response from the military.

He also accuses the military junta of prioritising taking aid for themselves rather than channelling it to those most in need.
Myanmar to hold minute's silence for victimspublished at 19:41

Myanmar's military junta says the country will hold a minute's silence on Tuesday for the victims of Friday's powerful earthquake.

The silence will take place at 12:51:02, the precise time the 7.7 magnitude quake struck, the junta announced.
